- [Instructor] Before building, let's verify
that Java and Maven have been properly configured.
I have a terminal window open,
and my present working directory is explorecali.
So I'm going to type java dash version,
and we see that I'm all set to run
the appropriate Java version.
Next let's run mvn dash version,
and that's also ready to go.
If either of these commands fail,
then refer to the installation instructions
of those products.
Now let's build the project.
In the terminal window we type mvn space install.
Now this will download all the dependencies
into the m2 repository.
It compiles any Java sources
and package them into one JAR file.
It may take several minutes to download the dependencies
for the first time into your local repository.
So mine is finished, and let's prove that it built
by looking in the target folder.
So the target folder, we have this long file name
that says explorecali zero zero one dash snapshot dot jar.
Let's launch it at the command line with java dash jar
and invoke the JAR file.
And after a lot of startup messages,
we finally know the application is running
when it print started.
Explorecali application, and there it is.
So I know that by default, Spring Boot microservices
use port 8080.
Let's see if the application is accepting requests
via the browser.
So I'm at a browser and I'm going to hit the application
at local host 8080 to see if it's listening.
And it prints a json message.
Don't worry about the meaning of this message.
It's basically saying, "I'm alive."
If there's any problem, the browser will respond
with a message such as, "Site can't be reached."
Now, we could have multiple instances of the application
running but only if they are listening on different ports.
Back on the terminal window,
we see our original app is running.
I'm going to go to a different tab.
If we attempt to run them on the same port,
the second instantiation will fail
so let's look at this terminal window
and I have my command already populated here.
It's where I'm invoking the JAR file again
but this time, I'm using and setting the server dot port
property to 9090 and I'm going to launch that.
So it starts up and once it's done running,
we're going to prove that it's listening on port 9090.
Back in my browser and a new tab.
Local host 9090,
and it's running now on a different port.
So, see how easy it is to run multiple instances
of a web application?
To halt the application, go back to the terminal window
and just hit control-C
to stop it on this one, too,
or you can use your operating system's process controller
to terminate it.
To do this in a classic web archive or a WAR file
requires multiple installations of Tomkat
running on different ports.
This is the beauty of a microservice.
It's completely self-contained
with a runnable single command.
This makes it a favorite with the DevOps
and cloud computing crowds.
Without implementing any of the Explore California
solutions, we can see that the Spring Booth project
is already equipped with the basic plumbing
required by most web applications.